# Solis-Lemus lab guidelines
Based on (shamelessly copied from) "Guidelines for Research in the Baum lab" by David Baum

## What I expect from you:
- You will take ownership of your experience
    - **Acknowledge that you have the primary responsibility for the successful completion of your work.** You should maintain a high level of professionalism, self-motivation, engagement, scientific curiosity, and ethical standards.
    - **Ensure that you meet regularly with me** (once per week would be ideal) and provide me with updates on the progress and results of your activities and experiments. At the same time, be aware of my time constraints. I will strive to keep an open door policy, but there will be times when I won't be able to meet, and you will need to figure things out on your own. Acquiring problem-solving skills is part of a good research program.
    - **Be knowledgeable of the policies of the institute and university.** Comply with all institutional policies, including intellectual property rules, and codes of conduct.

- You will be a team player
    - **Attend and actively participate in all laboratory meetings**, as well as relevant seminars. Participation in lab meetings does not mean only presenting your own work, but also providing support to others in the lab through constructive questions and shared insights.
    - **Strive to be the very best lab citizen.** Be respectful, tolerant of, and work collegially with all lab colleagues: respect individual differences in values, personalities, work styles, and theoretical perspectives. 
    - **Acknowledge the efforts of everyone in the lab.**
    
- You will develop strong research skills
    - **Take advantage of your opportunity to work at a world-class university by developing and refining stellar research skills.** I expect that you will already know or learn how to plan, design, and conduct high quality empirical, conceptual and/or theoretical research. More importantly, I expect that you are open to improve your skills (research/computational/writing) constantly
    - **Present your work at meetings/seminars and prepare scientific articles.** The ‘currency’ in science is published papers, they drive a lot of what we do and, because our lab is supported by taxpayer dollars, we have an obligation to complete and disseminate our findings. I will push you to publish your research. I expect that your manuscripts will adhere to the "Guidelines on manuscripts and code" (see below). Please expect that at the beginning, I may heavily rewrite and edit your manuscripts
    - **You will follow the best computing practices in all the code/scripts that you do.** There is a big gap between code that runs, and code that is suitable for publication/open-source software (see "Guidelines on manuscripts and code" below). 
    - **You will be reproducible.** Maintain detailed, organized, and accurate records of your research. Be aware that your notes, records and all tangible research data are my property as the lab director. When you leave the lab, I encourage you to take copies of your work with you. But one full set of all files/notes must stay in the lab, with appropriate and accessible documentation.
    - **Keep up with the literature** so that you can have a hand in guiding your own research. Block at least one hour per week to do lit searches and read articles.
    - **Be responsive to advice and constructive criticism.** Remember that the feedback you get from me, your colleagues, your committee members, and your course instructors is intended to improve your scientific work.

- You will work to meet deadlines
    - **Strive to meet deadlines**: this is the only way to manage your progress. Deadlines can be managed in a number of ways, but I expect you to work your best to maintain these goals. As long as you are meeting expectations, you can largely set your own schedule.
    - **Be mindful of the constraints on my time.** Allow a minimum of one week prior to submission deadlines for me to read and respond to short materials such conference abstracts and two weeks for me to work on manuscripts or grant proposals. Please do not assume I can read materials within a day or two, especially when I am traveling.

- You will communicate clearly
    - **Let me know the style of communication or schedule of meetings that you prefer.** If there is something about my mentoring style that is proving difficult for you, please tell me so that I can have an opportunity to find an approach that works for you.
    - **Be prompt.** Respond promptly (in most cases, within 48 hours) to emails from anyone in the lab group and show up on time and prepared for meetings. If you need time to gather information in response to an email, please acknowledge receipt of the message and indicate when you will be able to provide the requested information.
    - **Discuss policies on work hours, sick leave and vacation with me directly.** Consult with me and notify fellow lab members in advance of any planned absences. Post-docs and staff are expected to work at least 40 hours per week. Most lab members will not exceed two weeks per year of fully personal travel. I believe that work-life balance and vacation time are essential for creative thinking and good health and encourage you to take regular vacations. Be aware, however, that there will necessarily be times when it may not be ideal to schedule time away.
    - **Discuss policies on authorship and attendance at professional meetings with me** before beginning any projects to ensure that we are in agreement. I expect you to submit relevant research results in a timely manner. Barring unusual circumstances, it is my policy that researchers are first-author on all work for which they took the lead on the project and preparation of the initial version of the manuscript.
    - **Help other students with their projects and provide informal mentorship.** This is a valuable experience! If you want to add other individuals as authors to your papers, please discuss this with me early on and before discussing the situation with these potential co-authors.


# What you can expect from me:
- I will work tirelessly for the good of the lab group; the success of every member of our group is my top priority. I will be transparent about the lab’s financial situation and honest about the amount of further funding that I can provide.
- I will be available for regular meetings and informal conversations. At our scheduled one-on-one meetings (ideally every week) we will address questions or concerns that you have. Our regular meetings can be more productive if you prepare a short summary of what you want to address and send it to me the day before so that I have time to look at it and prepare. If you need to miss a meeting, it is your responsibility to reschedule; I will show you the same courtesy. Slack is the best way to communicate with me, but emails are also ok. I do not always respond on weekends as I spent this time with my family. If my office door is open, feel free to stop by.
- I will involve you in the process of writing grant proposals, from the original ideas through submission. The goal of this is to help expose you to this important aspect of science and help you contribute to my efforts to fund your work and the lab in general.
- I will discuss authorship policies regarding papers with you. I will acknowledge your scientific contributions to the work in my laboratory, and I will work with you to help you publish your work in a timely manner.
- You can count on me to do my very best to promote you as a scientist and your work. I will help you in your professional development and in your efforts to communicate your work. I will work very hard to adequately fund our laboratory and to disseminate its results. I will do my best to provide timely review of your research. 
- My primary role is to (1) help you think clearly about theoretical issues driving your research and (2) successfully bring in grants and to steward our resources so that we all benefit to the maximum extent from our joint efforts. I will also make every attempt to help you network into the scientific community, including assistance finding post-doctoral and faculty positions.
- I am committed to mentoring you, even after you leave my lab. I am committed to your education and training while you are in my lab, and to advising and guiding your career development – to the degree you wish—long after you leave. I will provide honest letters of evaluation for you when you request them.
- I am committed to your research projects. I will help to plan and direct your projects, set reasonable and attainable goals, and establish a timeline for completion of projects.
- I will not require you to perform tasks that are unrelated to your professional development.
- I will lead by example and facilitate your training in complementary skills needed to be a successful scientist, such as oral and written communication skills, lab management, and scientific professionalism. I will encourage you to seek opportunities in teaching or outreach, provided these remain manageable in scope.
- I will encourage you to attend scientific/professional meetings and will make an effort to fund such activities. I will not be able to cover all of requests but I will try.
- I will provide you a work environment that is intellectually stimulating, emotionally supportive, safe, and free of harassment. I will intervene strenuously to ensure that everybody feels safe and welcome.
- I will strive to be supportive, equitable, accessible, encouraging, and respectful. I will try my best to understand your unique situation. I am mindful that we all come from a different backgrounds and have different circumstance. It will help if you keep me informed about your experiences and remember that academic research is a job with very high expectations. I view my role as fostering your professional confidence and encouraging your critical thinking, skepticism, and creativity. **If my attempts to do this are not effective for you, I am open to talking with you about other ways to achieve these goals.**